docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

In this activity you will:

* Launch the lab in Qwiklabs
* Launch the Google Cloud Shell

---
**WARNING:** You must use the credentials provided by Qwiklabs for this lab.  Failure to do so may result in charges to your personal Google account.  You should either log out of Google entirely before proceeding or open an Icognito window in the Google Chrome web browser.

![Chrome Incognito mode](img/incognito.png)

---

## Log into Qwiklabs

Navigate to the [Qwiklabs URL](https://paloaltonetworks.qwiklab.com) in your web browser

```html
https://paloaltonetworks.qwiklab.com
```

Log in with your Qwiklabs credentials (sign up if you are new to Qwiklabs).
![Qwiklabs login](img/qwiklabs-login.png)

## Launch the lab

Confirm that the lab entitled __Introduction to Terraform and Ansible__ is listed under __In Progress__ on the welcome screen.

Click on the __Introduction to Terraform and Ansible__ lab to add it to your __My Learning__ inventory.
![Select lab](img/welcome.png)

Click on the __Introduction to Terraform and Ansible__ lab in the __My Learning__ page.
![My Learning](img/my-learning.png)

Click on __Start Lab__ in the upper right corner of the main lab page.
![Start lab](img/start-lab.png)

Make note of the __Username__, __Password__, and __GCP Project ID__ fields that are generated.
![Connection details](img/connection-details.png)

## Log into Google Cloud Platform

Click on the __Open Google Console__ button located under the __Connection Details__.  A new browser tab will open and take you to the Google login page.

Log in using the credentials provided on the Qwiklabs launch page for this specific lab.
![Google login](img/gcp-login.png)

Click __Accept__ on the logon banner page to accept the Terms of Service.
![Banner page](img/banner-page.png)

Since this is a temporary lab account you can skip adding account recovery options by clicking __Done__.
![Recovery options](img/recovery.png)

Select your country, opt out of email updates, and accept the updated Terms of Service and click __Accept__.
![Updated ToS](img/updated-tos.png)

## Launch Google Cloud Shell

Click the menu icon in the upper left-hand corner of the Dashboard to hide the sidebar menu.
![Menu bar](img/menu.png)

In the upper right-hand corner of the Dashboard, click on the Cloud Shell icon.
![Cloud Shell](img/cloud-shell.png)

A welcome page is displayed when launching the Cloud Shell for the first time. Click __Start Cloud Shell__ to proceed.
![Cloud Shell](img/cs-intro.png)

The Cloud Shell will appear at the bottom of the Dashboard.  Wait a few moments as it provisions and connects to the environment.
![Bottom shell](img/bottom-shell.png)

You can click on the __Open in New Window__ icon in the Cloud Shell toolbar for a full-sized Cloud Shell display in a new browser tab.
![New window](img/new-window.png)

You are now ready to proceed with the lab configuration.
![Ready to config](img/ready-to-config.png)

Commit message:

Retooling for no Google Cloud Shell

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

In this activity you will:

* Log into Qwiklabs
* Launch the lab in Qwiklabs
* Create a Linux VM instance
* SSH into the Linux VM

---
**WARNING:** You must use the credentials provided by Qwiklabs for this lab.  Failure to do so may result in charges to your personal Google account.  You should either log out of Google entirely before proceeding or open an Icognito window in the Google Chrome web browser.

![Chrome Incognito mode](img/incognito.png)

---

## Log into Qwiklabs

Navigate to the [Qwiklabs URL](https://paloaltonetworks.qwiklab.com) in your web browser

```html
https://paloaltonetworks.qwiklab.com
```

Log in with your Qwiklabs credentials (sign up if you are new to Qwiklabs).  You must use your corporate email address for the username.
![Qwiklabs login](img/qwiklabs-login.png)

## Launch the lab

Confirm that the lab entitled __Introduction to Terraform and Ansible__ is listed under __In Progress__ on the welcome screen.

Click on the __Introduction to Terraform and Ansible__ lab to add it to your __My Learning__ inventory.
![Select lab](img/welcome.png)

Click on the __Introduction to Terraform and Ansible__ lab in the __My Learning__ page.
![My Learning](img/my-learning.png)

Click on __Start Lab__ in the upper right corner of the main lab page.
![Start lab](img/start-lab.png)

Make note of the __Username__, __Password__, and __GCP Project ID__ fields that are generated.
![Connection details](img/connection-details.png)

## Log into Google Cloud Platform

Click on the __Open Google Console__ button located under the __Connection Details__.  A new browser tab will open and take you to the Google login page.

Log in using the credentials provided on the Qwiklabs launch page for this specific lab.
![Google login](img/gcp-login.png)

Click __Accept__ on the logon banner page to accept the Terms of Service.
![Banner page](img/banner-page.png)

Since this is a temporary lab account you can skip adding account recovery options by clicking __Done__.
![Recovery options](img/recovery.png)

Select your country, opt out of email updates, and accept the updated Terms of Service and click __Accept__.
![Updated ToS](img/updated-tos.png)

## Create a new VM instance

Scroll down in the left-hand navigation menu select **Compute Engine > VM instances**.
![Compute Engine](img/compute-eng.png)

In the VM instances screen, click **Create** to being the VM creation process.
![Create VM](img/create-vm.png)

Give the VM instance a name of your choice.  Select the **us-central1 (Iowa)** region and select any one of the four zones available.  Leave all other values as default.
![Define VM](img/define-vm.png)

Scroll down to the **Access Scopes** section and select **Allow full acces to all Cloud APIs**.  Then click **Create** to launch the VM instance.
![Launch VM](img/launch-vm.png)

Once the instance is up you can SSH into the device by clicking **SSH** in the instance list (You may need to click **HIDE INFO PANEL** in the upper left first).
![SSH VM](img/ssh-vm.png)

Google Cloud will create an SSH key pair and distribute it to the newly created VM instance. It will then open an SSH window into it.
![Ready to config](img/vm-ready.png)

You are now ready to proceed with the lab configuration!
