docs/terraform-lab.md, before:

# Terraform Lab Activities

In this activity you will:

* Perform basic network configuration
* Create objects and security rules
* Clean up the firewall configs

## Task 1 - Basic Networking Config

Change into the `terraform` directory.  We'll use it for all of our Terraform files.

```bash
$ cd ../terraform
```

Edit the file `panos_variables.tf` and replace the **default** values of the variables `panos_hostname`, `panos_username`, and `panos_password` with the appropriate values from your VM-Series instance.

```yml
variable "panos_hostname" {
  description = "The external IP address of the VM-Series instance"
  type = "string"
  default = ""
}

variable "panos_username" {
  description = "Username of the VM-Series administrator"
  type = "string"
  default = ""
}

variable "panos_password" {
  description = "Password of the VM-Series administrator"
  type = "string"
  default = ""
}
```

Using your text editor create the file `panos_plan.tf`.  We will place our Terraform plan in this file.

Start by defining the provider config, which will use the `panos` provider. Note that the `hostname`, `username`, and `password` fields refer to the variables we defined in the `panos_variables.tf` file.

```hcl
provider "panos" {
    hostname = "${var.panos_hostname}"
    username = "${var.panos_username}"
    password = "${var.panos_password}"
}
```

### Network Interfaces

Next, we will create the interfaces resources.  Here are examples of the interfaces we will be creating:

![ethernet1/1](img/eth1.png)

![ethernet1/2](img/eth2.png)

Add the following resources to `panos_plan.tf`.  Note that the **ethernet1/2** interface omits the option to create the default route via DHCP.

```hcl
resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth1" {
    name = "ethernet1/1"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
    create_dhcp_default_route = true
}

resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth2" {
    name = "ethernet1/2"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
}
```

Refer to the [provider documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/panos/r/ethernet_interface.html) for more details on the `panos_ethernet_interface` resource.

### Zones

Next, we will create resources for security zones and reference the interfaces we just added.  Here are examples of the zones we need to create:

![L3-trust](img/l3-trust.png)

![L3-untrust](img/l3-untrust.png)

Add the following configuration to `panos_plan.tf`.  The interfaces are referenced by name so that Terraform automatically knows that the interfaces will need to be created *before* the zones themselves.

```hcl
resource "panos_zone" "int" {
    name = "L3-trust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth1.name}"]
}

resource "panos_zone" "ext" {
    name = "L3-untrust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth2.name}"]
}
```

Refer to the [provider documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/panos/r/zone.html) for more details on the `panos_zone` resource.

### Apply the Terraform Plan

The resulting `panos_plan.tf` file should look like this:

```hcl
provider "panos" {
    hostname = "${var.panos_hostname}"
    username = "${var.panos_username}"
    password = "${var.panos_password}"
}

resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth1" {
    name = "ethernet1/1"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
    create_dhcp_default_route = true
}

resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth2" {
    name = "ethernet1/2"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
}

resource "panos_zone" "int" {
    name = "L3-trust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth1.name}"]
}

resource "panos_zone" "ext" {
    name = "L3-untrust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth2.name}"]
}
```

Let's apply this config to our firewall.  You first need to run `terraform init` to download all the providers we need.

```bash
$ terraform init
```

We'll then validate the config with `terraform plan`.

```bash
$ terraform plan
```

If there are no errors, go ahead and push your config updates to the firewall with `terraform apply`.

```bash
$ terraform apply
```

Log in to the web UI of your firewall and verify that the configuration matches the examples above.  Note that because of the way Terraform *currently* functions the changes have only been made to the candidate configuration and have **not** been committed.

---

## Task 2 - Objects and Security Rule Creation

Next, we will create resources for an address object and some security rules. Here is an example of an address object we need to create:

![Wordpress Server](img/wordpress.png)

Add the following to the bottom of the `panos_plan.tf` file:

```hcl
resource "panos_address_object" "wp" {
    name = "wordpress server"
    description = "Internal server"
    value = "10.1.23.45"
}
```

Refer to the [provider documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/panos/r/address_object.html) for more details on the `panos_address_object` resource.

Now, here is an example of the security rules that we need to create:

![Security Policy](img/security-policy.png)

Add the following to your `panos_plan.tf` file.  Just like with the networking config, zones and objects are referenced by name so that Terraform knows they need to be created before our security rules.

```hcl
resource "panos_security_rule_group" "policy" {
    rule {
        name = "Wordpress Traffic"
        source_zones = ["${panos_zone.ext.name}"]
        source_addresses = ["any"]
        source_users = ["any"]
        hip_profiles = ["any"]
        destination_zones = ["${panos_zone.int.name}"]
        destination_addresses = ["any"]
        applications = ["web-browsing"]
        services = ["application-default"]
        categories = ["any"]
        action = "allow"
    }
    rule {
        name = "Outbound"
        source_zones = ["${panos_zone.int.name}"]
        source_addresses = ["any"]
        source_users = ["any"]
        hip_profiles = ["any"]
        destination_zones = ["${panos_zone.ext.name}"]
        destination_addresses = ["any"]
        applications = ["any"]
        services = ["application-default"]
        categories = ["any"]
        action = "allow"
    }
    rule {
        name = "Default Deny"
        source_zones = ["any"]
        source_addresses = ["any"]
        source_users = ["any"]
        hip_profiles = ["any"]
        destination_zones = ["any"]
        destination_addresses = ["any"]
        applications = ["any"]
        services = ["application-default"]
        categories = ["any"]
        action = "deny"
    }
}
```

### Apply the Terraform Plan

Let's apply the config to our firewall.  We won't need to run `terraform init` again since the provider has already been initialized. So just check your config with `terraform plan`:

```bash
$ terraform plan
```

If there are no errors, go ahead and push your config updates to the firewall with `terraform apply`.

```bash
$ terraform apply
```

Switch browser tabs to the web UI of your firewall and verify that the configuration matches the examples above.  Again, the changes have only been made to the candidate configuration and have **not** been committed.

---

## Task 3 - Cleanup

Terraform will clean up our firewall configs with the `terraform destroy` command. Run it to prepare for the Ansible portion of the lab:

```bash
$ terraform destroy
```

Confirm in the firewall UI that the security rules, objects, and network configs we created have been removed.

You're now done with the Terraform portion of the lab.

Commit message:

Added VR to Terraform lab and removed chmod command from setup

docs/terraform-lab.md, after:

# Terraform Lab Activities

In this activity you will:

* Perform basic network configuration
* Create objects and security rules
* Clean up the firewall configs

## Task 1 - Basic Networking Config

Change into the `terraform` directory.  We'll use it for all of our Terraform files.

```bash
$ cd ../terraform
```

Edit the file `panos_variables.tf` and replace the **default** values of the variables `panos_hostname`, `panos_username`, and `panos_password` with the appropriate values from your VM-Series instance.

```yml
variable "panos_hostname" {
  description = "The external IP address of the VM-Series instance"
  type = "string"
  default = ""
}

variable "panos_username" {
  description = "Username of the VM-Series administrator"
  type = "string"
  default = ""
}

variable "panos_password" {
  description = "Password of the VM-Series administrator"
  type = "string"
  default = ""
}
```

Using your text editor create the file `panos_plan.tf`.  We will place our Terraform plan in this file.

Start by defining the provider config, which will use the `panos` provider. Note that the `hostname`, `username`, and `password` fields refer to the variables we defined in the `panos_variables.tf` file.

```hcl
provider "panos" {
    hostname = "${var.panos_hostname}"
    username = "${var.panos_username}"
    password = "${var.panos_password}"
}
```

### Network Interfaces

Next, we will create the interfaces resources.  Here are examples of the interfaces we will be creating:

![ethernet1/1](img/eth1.png)

![ethernet1/2](img/eth2.png)

Add the following resources to `panos_plan.tf`.  Note that the **ethernet1/2** interface omits the option to create the default route via DHCP.

```hcl
resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth1" {
    name = "ethernet1/1"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
    create_dhcp_default_route = true
}

resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth2" {
    name = "ethernet1/2"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
}
```

Refer to the [provider documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/panos/r/ethernet_interface.html) for more details on the `panos_ethernet_interface` resource.

### Virtual Router

Now we have to associate these interfaces with the default virtual router.  Add the following configuration to `panos_plan.tf`.  The interfaces are referenced by name so that Terraform automatically knows that the interfaces will need to be created *before* the virtual router resource.

```hcl
resource "panos_virtual_router" "vr" {
    name = "default"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth1.name}", "${panos_ethernet_interface.eth2.name}"]
}
```
Refer to the [provider documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/panos/r/virtual_router.html) for more details on the `panos_virtual_router` resource.

### Zones

Next, we will create resources for security zones and reference the interfaces we added.  Here are examples of the zones we need to create:

![L3-trust](img/l3-trust.png)

![L3-untrust](img/l3-untrust.png)

Add the following configuration to `panos_plan.tf`.  The interfaces are referenced by name so that Terraform automatically knows that the interfaces will need to be created *before* the zones themselves.

```hcl
resource "panos_zone" "int" {
    name = "L3-trust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth1.name}"]
}

resource "panos_zone" "ext" {
    name = "L3-untrust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth2.name}"]
}
```

Refer to the [provider documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/panos/r/zone.html) for more details on the `panos_zone` resource.

### Apply the Terraform Plan

The resulting `panos_plan.tf` file should look like this:

```hcl
provider "panos" {
    hostname = "${var.panos_hostname}"
    username = "${var.panos_username}"
    password = "${var.panos_password}"
}

resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth1" {
    name = "ethernet1/1"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
    create_dhcp_default_route = true
}

resource "panos_ethernet_interface" "eth2" {
    name = "ethernet1/2"
    vsys = "vsys1"
    mode = "layer3"
    enable_dhcp = true
}

resource "panos_virtual_router" "vr" {
    name = "default"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth1.name}", "${panos_ethernet_interface.eth2.name}"]
}

resource "panos_zone" "int" {
    name = "L3-trust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth1.name}"]
}

resource "panos_zone" "ext" {
    name = "L3-untrust"
    mode = "layer3"
    interfaces = ["${panos_ethernet_interface.eth2.name}"]
}
```

Let's apply this config to our firewall.  You first need to run `terraform init` to download all the providers we need.

```bash
$ terraform init
```

We'll then validate the config with `terraform plan`.

```bash
$ terraform plan
```

If there are no errors, go ahead and push your config updates to the firewall with `terraform apply`.

```bash
$ terraform apply
```

Log in to the web UI of your firewall and verify that the configuration matches the examples above.  Note that because of the way Terraform *currently* functions the changes have only been made to the candidate configuration and have **not** been committed.

---

## Task 2 - Objects and Security Rule Creation

Next, we will create resources for an address object and some security rules. Here is an example of an address object we need to create:

![Wordpress Server](img/wordpress.png)

Add the following to the bottom of the `panos_plan.tf` file:

```hcl
resource "panos_address_object" "wp" {
    name = "wordpress server"
    description = "Internal server"
    value = "10.1.23.45"
}
```

Refer to the [provider documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/panos/r/address_object.html) for more details on the `panos_address_object` resource.

Now, here is an example of the security rules that we need to create:

![Security Policy](img/security-policy.png)

Add the following to your `panos_plan.tf` file.  Just like with the networking config, zones and objects are referenced by name so that Terraform knows they need to be created before our security rules.

```hcl
resource "panos_security_rule_group" "policy" {
    rule {
        name = "Wordpress Traffic"
        source_zones = ["${panos_zone.ext.name}"]
        source_addresses = ["any"]
        source_users = ["any"]
        hip_profiles = ["any"]
        destination_zones = ["${panos_zone.int.name}"]
        destination_addresses = ["any"]
        applications = ["web-browsing"]
        services = ["application-default"]
        categories = ["any"]
        action = "allow"
    }
    rule {
        name = "Outbound"
        source_zones = ["${panos_zone.int.name}"]
        source_addresses = ["any"]
        source_users = ["any"]
        hip_profiles = ["any"]
        destination_zones = ["${panos_zone.ext.name}"]
        destination_addresses = ["any"]
        applications = ["any"]
        services = ["application-default"]
        categories = ["any"]
        action = "allow"
    }
    rule {
        name = "Default Deny"
        source_zones = ["any"]
        source_addresses = ["any"]
        source_users = ["any"]
        hip_profiles = ["any"]
        destination_zones = ["any"]
        destination_addresses = ["any"]
        applications = ["any"]
        services = ["application-default"]
        categories = ["any"]
        action = "deny"
    }
}
```

### Apply the Terraform Plan

Let's apply the config to our firewall.  We won't need to run `terraform init` again since the provider has already been initialized. So just check your config with `terraform plan`:

```bash
$ terraform plan
```

If there are no errors, go ahead and push your config updates to the firewall with `terraform apply`.

```bash
$ terraform apply
```

Switch browser tabs to the web UI of your firewall and verify that the configuration matches the examples above.  Again, the changes have only been made to the candidate configuration and have **not** been committed.

---

## Task 3 - Cleanup

Terraform will clean up our firewall configs with the `terraform destroy` command. Run it to prepare for the Ansible portion of the lab:

```bash
$ terraform destroy
```

Confirm in the firewall UI that the security rules, objects, and network configs we created have been removed.

You're now done with the Terraform portion of the lab.
